What does the book aim to do?

It aims to extend and improve the accuracy of your vocabulary and help you prepare for the IELTS test.

It introduces vocabulary through listening and reading texts that reflect the materials used in the IELTS test.

Learning new words in context can help you to remember them and also helps you to understand their meaning.

This book also gives you opportunities to practice new words so that they  can become part of your active vocabulary.

Who is it aimed at?

The book is designed for students working alone who want to revise and extend their vocabulary.

But it can also be used as part of an IELTS preparation course in the classroom, or set as homework by a teacher.

It is also suitable for advanced students, or those studying English for academic purposes.

What order should I do the units in?

You can work through the teaching units (1-20) in any order, but you should study all the units if you want to prepare thoroughly for the test.

You may want to start with a particular unit because it relates to a topic in your course book or because you have particular interest in that area.

Units 21 and 22 give helpful tips on learning new vocabulary and how to use a dictionary.

This units provide a very useful introduction to learning vocabulary. so it may be a good idea to look at these first.

How do I use the book?

It is best to work through a unit from beginning to end as one exercise may revise the vocabulary from previous exercise.

The test practice sections further opportunities to extend your vocabulary, as well as giving you practice in the different sections of the IELTS test.

How are the units organised?

There are 25 units. The first 20 units present and practise vocabulary based on general and academic topics.

Each topic is divided into smaller sections. Each unit has three pages of vocabulary exercises based on listening, reading, writing and speaking materials similar to those found in the IELTS test.

There is also a focus on pronunciation. In addition, each unit has one page for a test practice activity, or three pages when it is academic reading test practice. 

The test practice  includes examples of all different tasks in the following papers: Academic Reading, General Training Reading, Academic Writing, General Training Writing, Listening and Speaking, (see the summary of the Academic and General Training tests on pp6-7).

These tests provide useful practice and revision even if you are not taking the test.

At the front of the book is a summary of what is in each part of the IELTS test. 

The last five units  of the book provide a general guide to learning and using new vocabulary.

Units 21 and 22 give useful tips on developing vocabulary and using a dictionary. 

Units 23-25 focus on useful vocabulary for the different writing sections of the IELTS test. 

Units 23 and 24 are designed for students planning on talking the Academic Training Module and Unit 25 is designed for students planning on talking the General Training Module.

At the end of the book you will also find:
    - an answer key for each unit including model answers for each writing task.
    - recording scripts
    - wordlists for each unit


